README.md, before:

![logo](https://github.com/baskerville/bspwm/raw/master/resources/bspwm_logo.png)

## Description

`bspwm` is a tiling window manager based on binary space partitioning.

The windows are represented as the leaves of a binary tree.

## Configuration

`bspwm` have only two sources of informations: the X events it receives and the messages it reads on a dedicated socket.

Those messages are sent through the `bspc` program.

If the `BSPWM_SOCKET` environment variable is defined, it will be used as the socket path, otherwise `/tmp/bspwm-socket` is used.

The recommended way of defining keyboard shortcuts is to use `xbindkeys`.

The only way to configure `bspwm` is by sending *set* messages via the client, hence `bspwm`'s configuration file is an executable called `autostart` which lives in `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/bspwm/`.

Example configurations: [autostart](https://github.com/baskerville/bin/blob/master/bspwm_autostart) and [xbindkeysrc](https://github.com/baskerville/dotfiles/blob/master/xbindkeysrc).

## Splitting Modes

There is only two splitting modes: *automatic* and *manual*.

The default mode is *automatic*. The *manual* mode is entered by sending a *presel* message.

Example: insertion of a new node (number 4) into the given tree in
*automatic* mode:

                     b                                   c
                    / \                                 / \
                   3   a              -->              4   b
                   ^  / \                              ^  / \
                     2   1                               3   a
                                                            / \
                                                           2   1
        +-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
        |            |            |         |            |            |
        |            |     2      |         |            |     3      |
        |            |            |         |            |            |
        |     3      |------------|   -->   |     4      |------------|
        |     ^      |            |         |     ^      |     |      |
        |            |     1      |         |            |  1  |  2   |
        |            |            |         |            |     |      |
        +-------------------------+         +-------------------------+

Same departure, but the mode is *manual*, a `presel up` message
was sent beforehand:

                     b                                   b
                    / \                                 / \
                   3   a              -->              c   a
                   ^  / \                             / \ / \
                     2   1                           4  3 2  1
                                                     ^
        +-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
        |            |            |         |            |            |
        |            |     2      |         |     4      |     2      |
        |            |            |         |     ^      |            |
        |     3      |------------|   -->   |------------|------------|
        |     ^      |            |         |            |            |
        |            |     1      |         |     3      |     1      |
        |            |            |         |            |            |
        +-------------------------+         +-------------------------+

## Messages

The syntax for the client is `bspc COMMAND ARGUMENTS...`.

The following messages are handled:

    quit
        Quit.

    get SETTING
        Return the value of the given setting.

    set SETTING VALUE
        Set the value of the given setting.

    dump
        Output the internal representation of the window tree.

    list
        Perform a dump of each desktop.

    windows
        Return the list of managed windows (i.e. their identifiers).

    close
        Close the focused window.

    kill
        Kill the focused window.

    presel DIR
        Switch to manual mode and select the splitting direction.

    ratio VALUE
        Set the splitting ratio of the focused window.

    cancel
        Switch to automatic mode.

    focus DIR
        Focus the neighbor node situated in the given direction. 

    shift DIR
        Focus the neighbor node situated in the given direction. 

    push DIR
        Push the fence located in the given direction.

    pull DIR
        Pull the fence located in the given direction.

    nearest older|newer [--skip-floating|--skip-tiled|--skip-class-equal|--skip-class-differ]
        Focus the nearest leaf matching the given constraints.

    cycle CYC [--skip-floating|--skip-tiled|--skip-class-equal|--skip-class-differ]
        Focus the next or previous window in the list of leaves.

    rotate ROT
        Rotate the tree of the current desktop.

    magnetise COR
        Move all the fences toward the given corner.

    send_to DESKTOP_NAME
        Send the focused window to the given desktop.

    use DESKTOP_NAME
        Select the given desktop.
    
    alternate_focus
        Alternate between the current and the last focused window.

    alternate
        Alternate between the current and the last focused desktop.

    add DESKTOP_NAME
        Make a new desktop with the given name.

    rename CURRENT_NAME NEW_NAME
        Rename the desktop named CURRENT_NAME to NEW_NAME.

    cycle_desktop CYC
        Select the next or previous desktop.
        
    layout LYT
        Set the layout of the current desktop to LYT.

    cycle_layout
        Cycle the layout of the current desktop.

    toggle_fullscreen
        Toggle the fullscreen state of the current window.

    toggle_floating
        Toggle the floating state of the current window.

    toggle_locked
        Toggle the locked state of the current window (locked windows will not respond to the 'close' command).

    rule PATTERN floating 
        Make a new rule that will float the windows whose class name or instance name equals PATTERN. 

    reload_autostart
        Reload the autostart file.

    reload_settings
        Reload the default settings.

    reload
        Reload the autostart file and the default settings.

Where

    DIR = left|right|up|down
    CYC = next|prev
    ROT = clockwise|counter_clockwise|full_cycle
    COR = top_left|top_right|bottom_left|bottom_right
    LYT = monocle|tiled

## Settings

Colors are either [X color names](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X11_color_names) or '#RRGGBB', booleans are 'true' or 'false'.

    active_border_color
        Color of the main border of a focused window.

    normal_border_color
        Color of the main border of an unfocused window.
    
    inner_border_color
        Color of the inner border of a window.

    outer_border_color
        Color of the outer border of a window.
    
    presel_border_color
        Color of the *presel* message feedback.

    active_locked_border_color
        Color of the main border of a focused locked window.

    normal_locked_border_color
        Color of the main border of an unfocused locked window.

    urgent_border_color
        Color of the border of an urgent window.

    inner_border_width
    main_border_width
    outer_border_width
        Width of the inner, main and outer borders.

    window_gap
        Value of the gap that separates windows.

    top_padding
    bottom_padding
    left_padding
    right_padding
        Padding space added at the sides of the screen.

    wm_name
        The value that shall be used for the _NET_WM_NAME property of the root window.

    borderless_monocle 
        Whether to remove borders for tiled windows in monocle mode.

## Mouse Bindings

    M4 + Left Button
        Move the window under the pointer.

    M4 + Middle Button
        Focus the window under the pointer.

    M4 + Middle Button
        Resize the window under the pointer (by moving one of its four corners).

Where *M4* is the fourth modifier mask (generally bound to *Super*).

## Panel

`dzen2` fed with the output of `ewmhstatus`. Example: [launchpanel](https://github.com/baskerville/bin/blob/master/launchpanel).

## Required Libraries:

libxcb, xcb-util, xcb-util-wm.

## Installation

    make
    make install

Commit message:

New setting: 'focus_follow_mouse'

README.md, after:

![logo](https://github.com/baskerville/bspwm/raw/master/resources/bspwm_logo.png)

## Description

`bspwm` is a tiling window manager based on binary space partitioning.

The windows are represented as the leaves of a binary tree.

## Configuration

`bspwm` have only two sources of informations: the X events it receives and the messages it reads on a dedicated socket.

Those messages are sent through the `bspc` program.

If the `BSPWM_SOCKET` environment variable is defined, it will be used as the socket path, otherwise `/tmp/bspwm-socket` is used.

The recommended way of defining keyboard shortcuts is to use `xbindkeys`.

The only way to configure `bspwm` is by sending *set* messages via the client, hence `bspwm`'s configuration file is an executable called `autostart` which lives in `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/bspwm/`.

Example configurations: [autostart](https://github.com/baskerville/bin/blob/master/bspwm_autostart) and [xbindkeysrc](https://github.com/baskerville/dotfiles/blob/master/xbindkeysrc).

## Splitting Modes

There is only two splitting modes: *automatic* and *manual*.

The default mode is *automatic*. The *manual* mode is entered by sending a *presel* message.

Example: insertion of a new node (number 4) into the given tree in
*automatic* mode:

                     b                                   c
                    / \                                 / \
                   3   a              -->              4   b
                   ^  / \                              ^  / \
                     2   1                               3   a
                                                            / \
                                                           2   1
        +-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
        |            |            |         |            |            |
        |            |     2      |         |            |     3      |
        |            |            |         |            |            |
        |     3      |------------|   -->   |     4      |------------|
        |     ^      |            |         |     ^      |     |      |
        |            |     1      |         |            |  1  |  2   |
        |            |            |         |            |     |      |
        +-------------------------+         +-------------------------+

Same departure, but the mode is *manual*, a `presel up` message
was sent beforehand:

                     b                                   b
                    / \                                 / \
                   3   a              -->              c   a
                   ^  / \                             / \ / \
                     2   1                           4  3 2  1
                                                     ^
        +-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
        |            |            |         |            |            |
        |            |     2      |         |     4      |     2      |
        |            |            |         |     ^      |            |
        |     3      |------------|   -->   |------------|------------|
        |     ^      |            |         |            |            |
        |            |     1      |         |     3      |     1      |
        |            |            |         |            |            |
        +-------------------------+         +-------------------------+

## Messages

The syntax for the client is `bspc COMMAND ARGUMENTS...`.

The following messages are handled:

    quit
        Quit.

    get SETTING
        Return the value of the given setting.

    set SETTING VALUE
        Set the value of the given setting.

    dump
        Output the internal representation of the window tree.

    list
        Perform a dump of each desktop.

    windows
        Return the list of managed windows (i.e. their identifiers).

    close
        Close the focused window.

    kill
        Kill the focused window.

    presel DIR
        Switch to manual mode and select the splitting direction.

    ratio VALUE
        Set the splitting ratio of the focused window.

    cancel
        Switch to automatic mode.

    focus DIR
        Focus the neighbor node situated in the given direction. 

    shift DIR
        Focus the neighbor node situated in the given direction. 

    push DIR
        Push the fence located in the given direction.

    pull DIR
        Pull the fence located in the given direction.

    nearest older|newer [--skip-floating|--skip-tiled|--skip-class-equal|--skip-class-differ]
        Focus the nearest leaf matching the given constraints.

    cycle CYC [--skip-floating|--skip-tiled|--skip-class-equal|--skip-class-differ]
        Focus the next or previous window in the list of leaves.

    rotate ROT
        Rotate the tree of the current desktop.

    magnetise COR
        Move all the fences toward the given corner.

    send_to DESKTOP_NAME
        Send the focused window to the given desktop.

    use DESKTOP_NAME
        Select the given desktop.
    
    alternate_focus
        Alternate between the current and the last focused window.

    alternate
        Alternate between the current and the last focused desktop.

    add DESKTOP_NAME
        Make a new desktop with the given name.

    rename CURRENT_NAME NEW_NAME
        Rename the desktop named CURRENT_NAME to NEW_NAME.

    cycle_desktop CYC
        Select the next or previous desktop.
        
    layout LYT
        Set the layout of the current desktop to LYT.

    cycle_layout
        Cycle the layout of the current desktop.

    toggle_fullscreen
        Toggle the fullscreen state of the current window.

    toggle_floating
        Toggle the floating state of the current window.

    toggle_locked
        Toggle the locked state of the current window (locked windows will not respond to the 'close' command).

    rule PATTERN floating 
        Make a new rule that will float the windows whose class name or instance name equals PATTERN. 

    reload_autostart
        Reload the autostart file.

    reload_settings
        Reload the default settings.

    reload
        Reload the autostart file and the default settings.

Where

    DIR = left|right|up|down
    CYC = next|prev
    ROT = clockwise|counter_clockwise|full_cycle
    COR = top_left|top_right|bottom_left|bottom_right
    LYT = monocle|tiled

## Settings

Colors are either [X color names](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X11_color_names) or '#RRGGBB', booleans are 'true' or 'false'.

    active_border_color
        Color of the main border of a focused window.

    normal_border_color
        Color of the main border of an unfocused window.
    
    inner_border_color
        Color of the inner border of a window.

    outer_border_color
        Color of the outer border of a window.
    
    presel_border_color
        Color of the *presel* message feedback.

    active_locked_border_color
        Color of the main border of a focused locked window.

    normal_locked_border_color
        Color of the main border of an unfocused locked window.

    urgent_border_color
        Color of the border of an urgent window.

    inner_border_width
    main_border_width
    outer_border_width
        Width of the inner, main and outer borders.

    window_gap
        Value of the gap that separates windows.

    top_padding
    bottom_padding
    left_padding
    right_padding
        Padding space added at the sides of the screen.

    wm_name
        The value that shall be used for the _NET_WM_NAME property of the root window.

    borderless_monocle 
        Whether to remove borders for tiled windows in monocle mode.

    focus_follow_mouse
        Wether to focus the window under the mouse pointer.

## Mouse Bindings

    M4 + Left Button
        Move the window under the pointer.

    M4 + Middle Button
        Focus the window under the pointer.

    M4 + Middle Button
        Resize the window under the pointer (by moving one of its four corners).

Where *M4* is the fourth modifier mask (generally bound to *Super*).

## Panel

`dzen2` fed with the output of `ewmhstatus`. Example: [launchpanel](https://github.com/baskerville/bin/blob/master/launchpanel).

## Required Libraries:

libxcb, xcb-util, xcb-util-wm.

## Installation

    make
    make install
