README.asciidoc, before:

image:https://github.com/baskerville/bspwm/raw/master/logo/bspwm-logo.png[logo]

:man source:   Bspwm
:man version:  {revnumber}
:man manual:   Bspwm Manual

bspwm(1)
========

Name
----

bspwm - Tiling window manager based on binary space partitioning

Synopsis
--------

*bspwm* [*-h*|*-v*|*-s* _PANEL_FIFO_|*-p* _PANEL_PREFIX_]

*bspc* _MESSAGE_ [_ARGUMENTS_] [_OPTIONS_]

Description
-----------

*bspwm* is a tiling window manager that represents windows as the leaves of a full binary tree.

It is controlled and configured via *bspc*.

Configuration
-------------

*bspwm* have only two sources of informations: the X events it receives and the messages it reads on a dedicated socket.

Its configuration file is _$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/bspwm/autostart_.

Keyboard and pointer bindings are defined with https://github.com/baskerville/sxhkd[sxhkd].

Example configuration files can be found in the *examples* directory.

Splitting Modes
---------------

There is only two splitting modes: _automatic_ and _manual_.

The default mode is _automatic_. The _manual_ mode is entered by sending a *presel* message.

Example: insertion of a new node (number 4) into the given tree in _automatic_ mode:

----
              b                                   c
             / \                                 / \
            3   a              -->              4   b
            ^  / \                              ^  / \
              2   1                               3   a
                                                     / \
                                                    2   1
 +-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
 |            |            |         |            |            |
 |            |     2      |         |            |     3      |
 |            |            |         |            |            |
 |     3      |------------|   -->   |     4      |------------|
 |     ^      |            |         |     ^      |     |      |
 |            |     1      |         |            |  1  |  2   |
 |            |            |         |            |     |      |
 +-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
----

Same departure, but the mode is _manual_, and a *presel* _up_ message was sent beforehand:

----
             b                                   b
            / \                                 / \
           3   a              -->              c   a
           ^  / \                             / \ / \
             2   1                           4  3 2  1
                                             ^
+-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
|            |            |         |            |            |
|            |     2      |         |     4      |     2      |
|            |            |         |     ^      |            |
|     3      |------------|   -->   |------------|------------|
|     ^      |            |         |            |            |
|            |     1      |         |     3      |     1      |
|            |            |         |            |            |
+-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
----

Containers
----------

Each monitor contains at least one desktop.

Each desktop contains at most one tree.

Messages
--------


*get* _SETTING_::
    Return the value of the given setting.

*set* _SETTING_ _VALUE_::
    Set the value of the given setting.

*list* [_DESKTOP_NAME_]::
    Output the internal representation of the window tree.

*list_desktops* [*--quiet*]::
    Perform a dump of each desktop for the current monitor.

*list_monitors* [*--quiet*]::
    Perform a dump of each monitor.

*list_history*::
    Return the node focus history of each desktop.

*list_windows*::
    Return the list of managed windows (i.e. their identifiers).

*list_rules*::
    Return the list of rules.

*presel* _left_|_right_|_up_|_down_ [_SPLIT_RATIO_]::
    Switch to manual mode and select the splitting direction.

*cancel* [*--all*]::
    Switch to automatic mode.

*ratio* _VALUE_::
    Set the splitting ratio of the focused window.

*pad* _MONITOR_NAME_ [_TOP_PADDING_ [_RIGHT_PADDING_ [_BOTTOM_PADDING_ [_LEFT_PADDING_]]]]::
    Set the padding of the given monitor.

*focus* _left_|_right_|_up_|_down_::
    Focus the neighbor window situated in the given direction.

*shift* _left_|_right_|_up_|_down_::
    Exchange the current window with the given neighbor.

*swap* [*--keep-focus*]::
    Swap the focused window with the last focused window.

*push* _left_|_right_|_up_|_down_::
    Push the fence located in the given direction.

*pull* _left_|_right_|_up_|_down_::
    Pull the fence located in the given direction.

*fence_ratio* _left_|_right_|_up_|_down_::
    Set the splitting ratio of the fence located in the given direction.

*cycle* _next_|_prev_ [*--skip-floating*|*--skip-tiled*|*--skip-class-equal*|*--skip-class-differ*]::
    Focus the next or previous window matching the given constraints.

*nearest* _older_|_newer_ [*--skip-floating*|*--skip-tiled*|*--skip-class-equal*|*--skip-class-differ*]::
    Focus the nearest window matching the given constraints.

*biggest*::
    Return the ID of the biggest tiled window.

*circulate* _forward_|_backward_::
    Circulate the leaves in the given direction.

*grab_pointer* _focus_|_move_|_resize_side_|_resize_corner_::
    Begin the specified pointer action.

*track_pointer* _ROOT_X_ _ROOT_Y_::
    Pass the pointer root coordinates for the current pointer action.

*ungrab_pointer*::
    End the current pointer action.

*toggle_fullscreen*::
    Toggle the fullscreen state of the current window.

*toggle_floating*::
    Toggle the floating state of the current window.

*toggle_locked*::
    Toggle the locked state of the current window (locked windows will not respond to the *close* message).

*toggle_visibility*::
    Toggle the visibility of all the managed windows.

*close*::
    Close the focused window.

*kill*::
    Kill the focused window.

*send_to* _DESKTOP_NAME_ [*--follow*]::
    Send the focused window to the given desktop.

*drop_to* _next_|_prev_ [*--follow*]::
    Send the focused window to the next or previous desktop.

*send_to_monitor* _MONITOR_NAME_ [*--follow*]::
    Send the focused window to the given monitor.

*drop_to_monitor* _next_|_prev_ [*--follow*]::
    Send the focused window to the next or previous monitor.

*use* _DESKTOP_NAME_::
    Select the given desktop.

*use_monitor* _MONITOR_NAME_::
    Select the given monitor.

*focus_monitor* _left_|_right_|_up_|_down_::
    Focus the nearest monitor in the given direction.

*alternate*::
    Alternate between the current and the last focused window.

*alternate_desktop*::
    Alternate between the current and the last focused desktop.

*alternate_monitor*::
    Alternate between the current and the last focused monitor.

*add* _DESKTOP_NAME_ ...::
    Make new desktops with the given names.

*add_in* _MONITOR_NAME_ _DESKTOP_NAME_ ...::
    Make new desktops with the given names in the given monitor.

*rename_monitor* _CURRENT_NAME_ _NEW_NAME_::
    Rename the monitor named _CURRENT_NAME_ to _NEW_NAME_.

*rename* _CURRENT_NAME_ _NEW_NAME_::
    Rename the desktop named _CURRENT_NAME_ to _NEW_NAME_.

*remove_desktop* _DESKTOP_NAME_ ...::
    Remove the given desktops.

*send_desktop_to* _MONITOR_NAME_ [*--follow*]::
    Send the current desktop to the given monitor.

*cycle_monitor* _next_|_prev_::
    Select the next or previous monitor.

*cycle_desktop* _next_|_prev_ [*--skip-free*|*--skip-occupied*]::
    Select the next or previous desktop.

*layout* _monocle_|_tiled_ [_DESKTOP_NAME_ ...]::
    Set the layout of the given desktops (current if none given).

*cycle_layout*::
    Cycle the layout of the current desktop.

*rotate* _clockwise_|_counter_clockwise_|_full_cycle_::
    Rotate the window tree.

*flip* _horizontal_|_vertical_::
    Flip the window tree.

*balance*::
    Adjust the split ratios so that all windows occupy the same area.

*rule* _PATTERN_ [_DESKTOP_NAME_] [_floating_] [_follow_]::
    Create a new rule (_PATTERN_ must match the class or instance name).

*remove_rule* _UID_ ...::
    Remove the rules with the given _UIDs_.

*put_status*::
    Output the current state to the panel fifo.

*adopt_orphans*::
    Manage all the unmanaged windows remaining from a previous session.

*restore_layout* _FILE_PATH_::
    Restore the layout of each desktop from the content of _FILE_PATH_.

*restore_history* _FILE_PATH_::
    Restore the history of each desktop from the content of _FILE_PATH_.

*quit* [_EXIT_STATUS_]::
    Quit.

Settings
--------
Colors are either http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X11_color_names[X color names] or _#RRGGBB_, booleans are _true_ or _false_.

All the boolean settings are _false_ by default.


_focused_border_color_::
    Color of the border of a focused window of a focused monitor.

_active_border_color_::
    Color of the border of a focused window of an unfocused monitor.

_normal_border_color_::
    Color of the border of an unfocused window.

_presel_border_color_::
    Color of the *presel* message feedback.

_focused_locked_border_color_::
    Color of the border of a focused locked window of a focused monitor.

_active_locked_border_color_::
    Color of the border of a focused locked window of an unfocused monitor.

_normal_locked_border_color_::
    Color of the border of an unfocused locked window.

_urgent_border_color_::
    Color of the border of an urgent window.

_border_width_::
    Window border width.

_window_gap_::
    Value of the gap that separates windows.

_split_ratio_::
    Default split ratio.

_top_padding_, _right_padding_, _bottom_padding_, _left_padding_::
    Padding space added at the sides of the current monitor.

_wm_name_::
    The value that shall be used for the '_NET_WM_NAME' property of the root window.

_borderless_monocle_::
    Remove borders for tiled windows in monocle mode.

_gapless_monocle_::
    Remove gaps for tiled windows in monocle mode.

_focus_follows_pointer_::
    Focus the window under the pointer.

_pointer_follows_monitor_::
    When focusing a monitor, put the pointer at its center.

_adaptative_raise_::
    Prevent floating windows from being raised when they might cover other floating windows.

_apply_shadow_property_::
    Enable shadows for floating windows via the '_COMPTON_SHADOW' property.

_auto_alternate_::
    Interpret two consecutive identical *use* messages as an *alternate* message.

_focus_by_distance_::
    Use window or leaf distance for focus movement.

_history_aware_focus_::
    Give priority to the focus history when focusing nodes.

Environment Variables
---------------------

_BSPWM_SOCKET_::
  The path of the socket used for the communication between *bspc* and *bspwm*.

Panels
------

* Any EWMH compliant panel (e.g.: _tint2_, _bmpanel2_, etc.).
* A custom panel if the _-s_ flag is used (have a look at the files in _examples/panel_).

Key Features
------------

* Configured and controlled through messages.
* Multiple monitors support (via _RandR_).
* EWMH support (*tint2* works).
* Automatic and manual modes.

Contributors
------------

* Ivan Kanakarakis <ivan.kanak at gmail.com>
* Thomas Adam <thomas at xteddy.org>

Author
------

Bastien Dejean <baskerville at lavabit.com>

Mailing List
------------

bspwm at librelist.com

////
vim: set ft=asciidoc:
////

Commit message:

New setting: `monitor_focus_fallback`

README.asciidoc, after:

image:https://github.com/baskerville/bspwm/raw/master/logo/bspwm-logo.png[logo]

:man source:   Bspwm
:man version:  {revnumber}
:man manual:   Bspwm Manual

bspwm(1)
========

Name
----

bspwm - Tiling window manager based on binary space partitioning

Synopsis
--------

*bspwm* [*-h*|*-v*|*-s* _PANEL_FIFO_|*-p* _PANEL_PREFIX_]

*bspc* _MESSAGE_ [_ARGUMENTS_] [_OPTIONS_]

Description
-----------

*bspwm* is a tiling window manager that represents windows as the leaves of a full binary tree.

It is controlled and configured via *bspc*.

Configuration
-------------

*bspwm* have only two sources of informations: the X events it receives and the messages it reads on a dedicated socket.

Its configuration file is _$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/bspwm/autostart_.

Keyboard and pointer bindings are defined with https://github.com/baskerville/sxhkd[sxhkd].

Example configuration files can be found in the *examples* directory.

Splitting Modes
---------------

There is only two splitting modes: _automatic_ and _manual_.

The default mode is _automatic_. The _manual_ mode is entered by sending a *presel* message.

Example: insertion of a new node (number 4) into the given tree in _automatic_ mode:

----
              b                                   c
             / \                                 / \
            3   a              -->              4   b
            ^  / \                              ^  / \
              2   1                               3   a
                                                     / \
                                                    2   1
 +-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
 |            |            |         |            |            |
 |            |     2      |         |            |     3      |
 |            |            |         |            |            |
 |     3      |------------|   -->   |     4      |------------|
 |     ^      |            |         |     ^      |     |      |
 |            |     1      |         |            |  1  |  2   |
 |            |            |         |            |     |      |
 +-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
----

Same departure, but the mode is _manual_, and a *presel* _up_ message was sent beforehand:

----
             b                                   b
            / \                                 / \
           3   a              -->              c   a
           ^  / \                             / \ / \
             2   1                           4  3 2  1
                                             ^
+-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
|            |            |         |            |            |
|            |     2      |         |     4      |     2      |
|            |            |         |     ^      |            |
|     3      |------------|   -->   |------------|------------|
|     ^      |            |         |            |            |
|            |     1      |         |     3      |     1      |
|            |            |         |            |            |
+-------------------------+         +-------------------------+
----

Containers
----------

Each monitor contains at least one desktop.

Each desktop contains at most one tree.

Messages
--------


*get* _SETTING_::
    Return the value of the given setting.

*set* _SETTING_ _VALUE_::
    Set the value of the given setting.

*list* [_DESKTOP_NAME_]::
    Output the internal representation of the window tree.

*list_desktops* [*--quiet*]::
    Perform a dump of each desktop for the current monitor.

*list_monitors* [*--quiet*]::
    Perform a dump of each monitor.

*list_history*::
    Return the node focus history of each desktop.

*list_windows*::
    Return the list of managed windows (i.e. their identifiers).

*list_rules*::
    Return the list of rules.

*presel* _left_|_right_|_up_|_down_ [_SPLIT_RATIO_]::
    Switch to manual mode and select the splitting direction.

*cancel* [*--all*]::
    Switch to automatic mode.

*ratio* _VALUE_::
    Set the splitting ratio of the focused window.

*pad* _MONITOR_NAME_ [_TOP_PADDING_ [_RIGHT_PADDING_ [_BOTTOM_PADDING_ [_LEFT_PADDING_]]]]::
    Set the padding of the given monitor.

*focus* _left_|_right_|_up_|_down_::
    Focus the neighbor window situated in the given direction.

*shift* _left_|_right_|_up_|_down_::
    Exchange the current window with the given neighbor.

*swap* [*--keep-focus*]::
    Swap the focused window with the last focused window.

*push* _left_|_right_|_up_|_down_::
    Push the fence located in the given direction.

*pull* _left_|_right_|_up_|_down_::
    Pull the fence located in the given direction.

*fence_ratio* _left_|_right_|_up_|_down_::
    Set the splitting ratio of the fence located in the given direction.

*cycle* _next_|_prev_ [*--skip-floating*|*--skip-tiled*|*--skip-class-equal*|*--skip-class-differ*]::
    Focus the next or previous window matching the given constraints.

*nearest* _older_|_newer_ [*--skip-floating*|*--skip-tiled*|*--skip-class-equal*|*--skip-class-differ*]::
    Focus the nearest window matching the given constraints.

*biggest*::
    Return the ID of the biggest tiled window.

*circulate* _forward_|_backward_::
    Circulate the leaves in the given direction.

*grab_pointer* _focus_|_move_|_resize_side_|_resize_corner_::
    Begin the specified pointer action.

*track_pointer* _ROOT_X_ _ROOT_Y_::
    Pass the pointer root coordinates for the current pointer action.

*ungrab_pointer*::
    End the current pointer action.

*toggle_fullscreen*::
    Toggle the fullscreen state of the current window.

*toggle_floating*::
    Toggle the floating state of the current window.

*toggle_locked*::
    Toggle the locked state of the current window (locked windows will not respond to the *close* message).

*toggle_visibility*::
    Toggle the visibility of all the managed windows.

*close*::
    Close the focused window.

*kill*::
    Kill the focused window.

*send_to* _DESKTOP_NAME_ [*--follow*]::
    Send the focused window to the given desktop.

*drop_to* _next_|_prev_ [*--follow*]::
    Send the focused window to the next or previous desktop.

*send_to_monitor* _MONITOR_NAME_ [*--follow*]::
    Send the focused window to the given monitor.

*drop_to_monitor* _next_|_prev_ [*--follow*]::
    Send the focused window to the next or previous monitor.

*use* _DESKTOP_NAME_::
    Select the given desktop.

*use_monitor* _MONITOR_NAME_::
    Select the given monitor.

*focus_monitor* _left_|_right_|_up_|_down_::
    Focus the nearest monitor in the given direction.

*alternate*::
    Alternate between the current and the last focused window.

*alternate_desktop*::
    Alternate between the current and the last focused desktop.

*alternate_monitor*::
    Alternate between the current and the last focused monitor.

*add* _DESKTOP_NAME_ ...::
    Make new desktops with the given names.

*add_in* _MONITOR_NAME_ _DESKTOP_NAME_ ...::
    Make new desktops with the given names in the given monitor.

*rename_monitor* _CURRENT_NAME_ _NEW_NAME_::
    Rename the monitor named _CURRENT_NAME_ to _NEW_NAME_.

*rename* _CURRENT_NAME_ _NEW_NAME_::
    Rename the desktop named _CURRENT_NAME_ to _NEW_NAME_.

*remove_desktop* _DESKTOP_NAME_ ...::
    Remove the given desktops.

*send_desktop_to* _MONITOR_NAME_ [*--follow*]::
    Send the current desktop to the given monitor.

*cycle_monitor* _next_|_prev_::
    Select the next or previous monitor.

*cycle_desktop* _next_|_prev_ [*--skip-free*|*--skip-occupied*]::
    Select the next or previous desktop.

*layout* _monocle_|_tiled_ [_DESKTOP_NAME_ ...]::
    Set the layout of the given desktops (current if none given).

*cycle_layout*::
    Cycle the layout of the current desktop.

*rotate* _clockwise_|_counter_clockwise_|_full_cycle_::
    Rotate the window tree.

*flip* _horizontal_|_vertical_::
    Flip the window tree.

*balance*::
    Adjust the split ratios so that all windows occupy the same area.

*rule* _PATTERN_ [_DESKTOP_NAME_] [_floating_] [_follow_]::
    Create a new rule (_PATTERN_ must match the class or instance name).

*remove_rule* _UID_ ...::
    Remove the rules with the given _UIDs_.

*put_status*::
    Output the current state to the panel fifo.

*adopt_orphans*::
    Manage all the unmanaged windows remaining from a previous session.

*restore_layout* _FILE_PATH_::
    Restore the layout of each desktop from the content of _FILE_PATH_.

*restore_history* _FILE_PATH_::
    Restore the history of each desktop from the content of _FILE_PATH_.

*quit* [_EXIT_STATUS_]::
    Quit.

Settings
--------
Colors are either http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X11_color_names[X color names] or _#RRGGBB_, booleans are _true_ or _false_.

All the boolean settings are _false_ by default.


_focused_border_color_::
    Color of the border of a focused window of a focused monitor.

_active_border_color_::
    Color of the border of a focused window of an unfocused monitor.

_normal_border_color_::
    Color of the border of an unfocused window.

_presel_border_color_::
    Color of the *presel* message feedback.

_focused_locked_border_color_::
    Color of the border of a focused locked window of a focused monitor.

_active_locked_border_color_::
    Color of the border of a focused locked window of an unfocused monitor.

_normal_locked_border_color_::
    Color of the border of an unfocused locked window.

_urgent_border_color_::
    Color of the border of an urgent window.

_border_width_::
    Window border width.

_window_gap_::
    Value of the gap that separates windows.

_split_ratio_::
    Default split ratio.

_top_padding_, _right_padding_, _bottom_padding_, _left_padding_::
    Padding space added at the sides of the current monitor.

_wm_name_::
    The value that shall be used for the '_NET_WM_NAME' property of the root window.

_borderless_monocle_::
    Remove borders for tiled windows in monocle mode.

_gapless_monocle_::
    Remove gaps for tiled windows in monocle mode.

_focus_follows_pointer_::
    Focus the window under the pointer.

_pointer_follows_monitor_::
    When focusing a monitor, put the pointer at its center.

_monitor_focus_fallback_::
    If the focus message fails, try to focus the nearest monitor in the same direction.

_adaptative_raise_::
    Prevent floating windows from being raised when they might cover other floating windows.

_apply_shadow_property_::
    Enable shadows for floating windows via the '_COMPTON_SHADOW' property.

_auto_alternate_::
    Interpret two consecutive identical *use* messages as an *alternate* message.

_focus_by_distance_::
    Use window or leaf distance for focus movement.

_history_aware_focus_::
    Give priority to the focus history when focusing nodes.

Environment Variables
---------------------

_BSPWM_SOCKET_::
  The path of the socket used for the communication between *bspc* and *bspwm*.

Panels
------

* Any EWMH compliant panel (e.g.: _tint2_, _bmpanel2_, etc.).
* A custom panel if the _-s_ flag is used (have a look at the files in _examples/panel_).

Key Features
------------

* Configured and controlled through messages.
* Multiple monitors support (via _RandR_).
* EWMH support (*tint2* works).
* Automatic and manual modes.

Contributors
------------

* Ivan Kanakarakis <ivan.kanak at gmail.com>
* Thomas Adam <thomas at xteddy.org>

Author
------

Bastien Dejean <baskerville at lavabit.com>

Mailing List
------------

bspwm at librelist.com

////
vim: set ft=asciidoc:
////
